---
title: "Solo: A Star Wars Story Isn't Really A Star Wars Story"
date: 2018-09-15T15:20:13+05:30
lastmod: 2018-09-15T15:20:13+05:30
draft: false
keywords: []
description: ""
tags: ["Star Wars", "Solo: A Star Wars Story", "Alden Ehrenreich", "Emilia Clarke", "Woody Harrelson"]
categories: ["Movie"]
author: "Rajiv Abraham"

# You can also close(false) or open(true) something for this content.
# P.S. comment can only be closed
comment: false
toc: false
autoCollapseToc: false
# You can also define another contentCopyright. e.g. contentCopyright: "This is another copyright."
contentCopyright: false
reward: false
mathjax: false
---

For  a long time I did not want to watch Solo: A Star Wars Story for the simple reason I did not want to get disappointed especially in light of  all of the negative reviews.

Finally, I did get around to watching it and I still did not want to post a review (well a mini review) because I wasn't sure I  loved it or hated it.

Don't get me wrong, as a standalone action movie Solo gets everything right, at least for the most part.  However, as part and parcel of the Star Wars franchise I am really not sure it lives up to the mark of any of the trilogies.

The main struggle with Solo: A Star Wars Story is that everybody knows what happens or is going to happen and more importantly we cannot associate anyone other than Harrison Ford as Han Solo. That means the movie has very large shoes to fill, and it doesn't fill them.

Also, considering the romance between Han Solo and Princess Leia the character Qi'ra seems like a very bad inclusion. However, Emilia Clarke does hold her own quite well so it doesn't end up being so much of a disappointment watching her on the big screen.

Also, the action sequences are huge and quiet epic in and of themselves,  but all said and done it's just another  action movie, and not Star Wars... and why was Thandie Newton even in the movie?

Go ahead and give Solo: A Star Wars Story a watch, it is an enjoyable joyride, but does nothing to further the Star Wars mythos.