---
title: "Luke Cage Season 2 Is a Blast"
date: 2018-07-03T19:52:16+05:30
lastmod: 2018-07-03T19:52:16+05:30
draft: false
keywords: []
description: ""
tags: ["Luke Cage"]
categories: ["TV"]
author: "Rajiv Abraham"

# You can also close(false) or open(true) something for this content.
# P.S. comment can only be closed
comment: false
toc: false
autoCollapseToc: false
# You can also define another contentCopyright. e.g. contentCopyright: "This is another copyright."
contentCopyright: false
reward: false
mathjax: false
---

Luke Cage got off to a very good start in season one, but even better for us, ups the ante in season 2. I had a blast watching it, and for very many reasons, but the killer soundtrack is reason enough alone. Have to hand it to whoever is in charge of the soundtrack and the background music, the Luke Cage soundtrack is something I’m looking forward to adding to my music collection.

The first season of Luke Cage struggled a bit after the unceremonious exit of Cornell 'Cottonmouth' Stokes (played wonderfully by Mahershala Ali), and the somewhat dreary introduction/performance of Willis 'Diamondback' Stryker. Luke Cage season 2 has fixed those problems with the introduction of a new super villain in John 'Bushmaster' McIver (Mustafa Shakir) who for once can actually go head-to-head with Luke Cage in a fist fight.

Mike Colter is a non-actor, but thankfully the role of Luke Cage does not ask much of him, and he breezes through with grunts and musclebound action for the most part. This alone would have made Luke Cage a nonstarter for many, but thankfully Alfre Woodard brings down the entire house with her superlative performance. She alone is the second singular reason to binge watch the second season of Luke Cage, but throw in Bushmaster and it’s excellent icing on an already excellent cake. Truly, I’m still recalling the dialogues and monologues by Alfre Woodard, excellent theater.

Throw in tighter storytelling, and cameos by Finn Jones and Jessica Henwick (from Iron Fist), and good acting from the likes of Simone Missick, Theo Rossi, Rosario Dawson, Gabrielle Dennis, etc. and you have a winner on your hands.

I cannot wait to see what they do with season 3 of Luke Cage, especially with how things ended, but till then season 2 of Luke Cage is highly recommended for binge watching.