---
title: "Un-IndieWebifying This Blog"
tags: ["IndieWeb"]
author: Rajiv Abraham
type: post
date: 2018-03-09T06:18:21+00:00
url: /811/811/
mf2_syndication:
  - 'a:0:{}'
geo_weather:
  - 'a:2:{s:5:"units";s:1:"C";s:4:"icon";s:4:"none";}'
geo_public:
  - 1
categories:
  - Musings
format: aside

---
<p style="text-align: left;">
  No, I&#8217;m not going anywhere.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  And I&#8217;m certainly not giving up on the IndieWeb movement.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  However, IndieWeb just doesn&#8217;t flat out work out of the box.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  Folks pile a lot on WordPress, but the fact is it works right out of the box and is extremely easy to personalize/customize with the use of plug-ins and themes.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  Despite trying a lot of themes and plug-ins, I couldn&#8217;t IndieWebify this blog.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  Too many moving parts that require a little bit of coding knowledge that is beyond my abilities at this point in time.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  For starters, I could never get microformats and h-card to work.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  And I cannot get images to show up on my Micro.Blog. Tried everything from making gallery and image post formats with no titles to trying multiple photo and gallery plug-ins as well as themes, but nothing seems to work.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  Kind of very silly when your photoblog images and galleries don&#8217;t syndicate and show up. Of course, there do exist workarounds like using a Tumblr blog to post to Micro.Blog, but that&#8217;s just one additional step and involving the use of a Tumblr blog that I don&#8217;t want to own and maintain.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  With the goal being minimalism and simplicity, I decided to cull the extra effort (for now) and revisit the IndieWebification process at a later time.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  PS: I do realize I continue to own my data and continue to self-host it, so for all intents and purposes, I am a part of the IndieWeb movement, just not using all the prescribed themes, plug-ins, and formats.
</p>