---
title: "Headline, to Be or Not to Be"
tags: ["Headline", "Copywriting"]
author: Rajiv Abraham
type: post
date: 2018-01-28T05:00:57+00:00
url: /448/448/
mf2_mp-syndicate-to:
  - 'a:2:{i:0;s:22:"bridgy-publish_twitter";i:1;s:23:"bridgy-publish_facebook";}'
mf2_syndication:
  - 'a:0:{}'
geo_weather:
  - 'a:2:{s:5:"units";s:1:"C";s:4:"icon";s:4:"none";}'
geo_public:
  - 1
categories:
  - Musings
format: aside

---
<p style="text-align: left;">
  Headline; to be or not to be.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  I study copywriting. Back when I was in marketing and sales it was one of the most important skills to have.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  Back then I struggled the same as anyone/everyone (?) to sell online, despite having great products and traffic. The reason I learned was that I did not have good copy.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  I began to study and learn copywriting and looking back can definitely say it had the most impact on the bottom line.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  Copywriting is a good skill to learn, but if you go by veteran copywriters the headline is 80% of the battle. People decide based on your headline whether to read or pass on by.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  David Ogilvy, often referred to as the father of advertising even went on record…
</p>

> _“On the average, five times as many people read the headline as read the body copy. When you have written your headline, you have spent eighty cents out of your dollar.”_
> 
> _David Ogilvy_

<p style="text-align: left;">
  These days though the headline seems to be a thing of the past especially on social media like Facebook and Twitter. We post content online without a title or a headline. The past couple of days I have been deep into researching the IndieWeb and one of the primary discoveries has been that folks actually want to create and post content on their blogs without a title.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  It’s a thing even on WordPress. Apart from the typical post formats like Posts and Pages, one can also use an Aside post format that lets you create and post content without a title, the same as posting on social media like Facebook and Twitter. Only in this case with the Aside post format, you can do it on your self-hosted website/blog and the search engines will recognize it and treat it as regular content.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  I suppose that’s a good thing, now copywriters can dispense with 80% of their hard work that would ordinarily be spent in crafting killer headlines and spend just 20% of their time on the body. Lest you folks think I’m kidding, I’d like to remind you that social media marketing is a thing.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  So what’s it gonna be, headline to be or not to be?
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  I’ll leave you with some excellent advice from Kevin Rogers, his No. 1 tip for writing a good headline.
</p>

<p style="text-align: left;">
  <iframe src="//www.youtube.com/embed/uLfkK7Fne5g" width="560" height="314" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
</p>